java c ST5226:  Spatial Statistics Project Assignment, AY 2024/2025 Due on Friday, 22 November, 2024 Instructions: 1.  This project assignment consists of two parts. The total marks of this assignment is 60. 2.  Please upload your work in 1 single PDF file to the Canvas assignment “Project” . The size of your file should be no more than 10Mb.  The deadline for submission is 11:59pm, Friday, 22 November, 2024. 3. If you compile the files for Part I and Part II separately, you should merge two PDF files into one and submit one single PDF file. 4. If your student number is XXX, please name your file XXX.pdf For example, if your matriculation number is A0012345R, your file should be named A0012345R.pdf, with no other prefix or suffix. You can submit multiple times in Canvas. However, only the last submission will be marked. 5.  Please write your student number and name on the first page of your file. 6. You should use either Markdown, Knitr, or LaTeX to compile your final file.    You must ensure that your codes can be copied  and  pasted from the pdf file. Screen- shots/Pictures of programming codes are unacceptable and will be regarded as incomplete work. If your codes do not produce the correct output, then your solution will be subject to mark deduction. 7.  No hard copy will be accepted. 8.  No late submission will be accepted (i.e., marks for your project = zero). 9. You are encouraged to discuss with classmates or me if you have any questions.  However, copying homework solutions is strictly prohibited. Part I (30 marks):  Analysis of Lip Cancer Data in Scotland This part consists of several problems related to the data file Scotland .rds. The data set contains an sf object that consists of the following variables: ●  cancer: number of lip cancer cases in the district ● expected: expected number ● logratio: log transformed ratio = log(Cancer/expected). The last two records have used a correction with Cancer = 0.5 because the recorded cancer counts are zero. ● varlogratio: the variance of the logratio, depends on the number of cases and the expected count ● northkm: Northing, in km, approximately centered so 0 is the location of Stirling ● eastkm: Easting, in km, approximately centered so 0 is the location of Stirling ● percentAFF: percent of the population in Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries.Why is Stirling used as the center? Historically, Stirling served as the medieval capital of Scotland and lies close to the geographical center of the country. It’s perhaps most renowned for the Battle of Stirling Bridge, where the Scottish forces led by William Wallace and Andrew Moray defeated the English army.  This battle was famously depicted in Mel Gibson’s 1995 film Braveheart—though, interestingly, the movie omits the bridge that played a critical role in the actual battle.

 (15 marks) Explore the spatial autocorrelation. (a)  (3 marks) Create three plots for the k-nearest neighbors of all regions, for the values of k = 1, 2, 3. For each of the three plots, are all the regions connected in the graph? (b)  (3 marks) Consider the queen-style. and rook-style. neighbors based on contiguity.  Identify all the regions whose queen-style. neighbors and rook-style. neighbors are different,  by giving the names of these regions.  Highlight these regions and their neighboring regions in the map.  You should fill these regions with one color and their neighboring regions with another color.(c)  (3 marks) Consider the count of lip cancers in the variable cancer.  Compute and report the Moran’s I statistic using the rook-style. neighborhood and B-style. weights. Then use the Moran’s I to determine whether there exists positive spatial dependence for cancer, in each of the three tests:  (i) normal test (without skewness correction); (ii) permutation test; (iii) Monte Carlo test by assuming that the count in each region follows a Poisson distribution with expectation given in the variable expected. Comment on your results. (d)  (3 marks) Repeat Part (c) with Geary’sc statistic.  Do you see any difference in the results and your conclusion? (e)  (3 marks) Consider the variable logratio. Compute the local Moran’ I statistics for all districts of Scotland, using the rook-style. neighborhood and B-style. weights. Plot a map of all districts in Scotland, and highlight those districts with significant local Moran’I on the map at the significance level 0.05.  You should use different colors for the four types of significant districts: High-High, High-Low, Low-High, and Low-Low.
 (15  marks) Modeling the areal data.   One question of interest is the association between working outdoors and lip cancer (measured by logratio). The percentAFF variable quan- tifies the percent of the district population working in Agriculture, Forestry, or Fishing.  All three occupations require large amounts of outdoor time.  In addition, we also want to know whether there are any spatial trends in the north-south and east-west directions. (a)  (3 marks) Fit a simple linear regression model, using logratio as the response variable, and using percentAFF, eastkm, and northkm as the predictors.  Report the summary of model fit and determine which of these predictors are significant.  Drop any insignificant predictor(s) from the model and refit the model with only significant predictors. Use plots to check if there is any violation of homogeneous variance assumption or the normality assumption. (b)  (3 marks) Following the last model you have fitted in  (a), refit it using weighted least squares by assumin代 写ST5226: Spatial Statistics Project Assignment, AY 2024/2025R 代做程序编程语言g that the individual variance is proportional to the reciprocal of the variable expected. Report the summary of model fit. Compare the results with those in (a). Which model is better?(c)  (3 marks) Following (b), for the better model you have determined in (b), we check if it is necessary to fit a further model to account for spatial dependence in the residuals.  Use gls() to fit a model such that the residuals aremodeled by an exponential semivariogram. Report the summary of model fit.  Compare the new model with those in (a) and (b). Determine which model gives the best fit to the data.(d)  (3 marks) Following (a), for only the significant predictors in (a), fit the one-parameter SAR model using the B-style. weights with rook-style. neighbors and constant error vari- ance. Report the summary of model fit. Use the permutation test based on Moran’s I to determine if there exists positive spatial dependence in the residuals.  Does the conclusion from this test agree with the test for spatial dependence in the summary of SAR model? (e)  (3 marks) Repeat  (d) for the one-parameter CAR model.  Does your conclusion change regarding the spatial dependence in the residuals?
Part II (30 marks):  Course ProjectYou are required to download a real-world spatial dataset and write a report, 5–10 pages in length, that includes a statistical analysis of the data.  The detailed instructions are as follows. (a) Your data must be real-world spatial data, specifically either geostatistical data or areal data. Using any other type of data will result in a score of zero for Part II of this assignment. (b) Your dataset must fulfill the following requirements: ● It contains at least 1 response variable and at least 1 predictor variable.  The response variable(s) must be spatially varying variable(s); ● It contains real geographical information (locations, or shapes of regions, etc.); ● It contains at least 50 observations, but no more than 1 million observations. You are allowed to combine several real-data datasets into one dataset.   For example, one dataset contains only the precipitation in different areas of Singapore, while another dataset contains the geographical boundaries of all districts in Singapore  (such as the data I have provided for Homework 1). You can combine them into one dataset and use it for subsequent analysis. You do not need to submit your data. (c)  The first section of your report must include a brief overview of the dataset, including the following information: ● The source of your data, and the type of the dataset (geostatistical or areal); ● The definition of all used variables in your dataset, the total number of observations, whether there are missing values, etc. ● The problem you want to investigate. You may want to check some background information of your data if necessary. ● An overview of statistical methods that you will use in the analysis. (d)  The main body of your report should include a comprehensive statistical analysis of the data. Your need to include the following: ● Simple descriptive analysis, such as maps showing the original variables in the dataset; ● Statistical models you want to apply.  For regression or kriging models, please indi-cate clearly which variable is the response and which are the predictors. Your analysis should account for possible spatial dependence. You may use math formulas occasion- ally for clarity, such as an equation for some regression model.  However, long math derivation will inevitably incur mark deduction because this is an applied project. ● Codes and outputs for the statistical analysis; your interpretation and discussion. You should ensure that your analysis is logically sound and that every statistical model you propose is well justified.  You may refer to the sample analyses in our lecture notes, tutorials, and homework assignments. (e)  The last section of your report should be a brief discussion or conclusion that summarizes your findings.

(f) You are strongly encouraged to use the various methods and techniques we have intro- duced in this course so far.  You may also use other spatial models beyond our course materials that are suitable for your data, as long as you provide sufficient justification.(g) You will be heavily penalized for using or unnecessarily discussing any methods, models, or algorithms unrelated to spatial statistics.(h)  Report Format Requirement: ● The report must be written in either Markdown, Knitr, or LaTeX, where the font size of your main text should be at least 11; ● The total length of your report should be from 5 to 10 pages including everything. A report exceeding 10 pages will be subject to mark deduction.   Note:  A longer report within this range does not guarantee a higher grade. ● The total number of figures in your report should be between 4 and 8. ● The total lines of code should range from 50 to 200, including all headers such as library() but excluding blank lines or spacing. (i)  Here are some useful sources for downloading spatial datasets: ● R CRAN Task View:  Analysis of Spatial Data.   Some  R  packages  contain many spatial datasets, such as rnaturalearth, spData, SpatialDatasets, etc.  You can google and find more. ● GeoDa Data and Lab ● Singapore’s open data portal ● NUS GIS webpage ● COVID-19 data, such as COVID tracking in US, COVID-19 Data Hub, etc. You can also find spatial datasets from research papers.  Please make sure that you cite the data source in the first section of your report.


   加QQ codinghelp Email: cscholary@gmail.com

